Unknown 0:03
Testing because it's going. Yes. Okay. So we're here with the I feel like I'm about to do a podcast over here with Lindsay Mae today. You got a good voice for

Unknown 0:18
the tea. I just had fresh tea. Yeah, we're just kind of gonna do like a TAS interview today. Okay,

Unknown 0:26
yeah. The other day when he spoke to me, you said that you had some. You and your family had some like previous experience with our projects working with Yeah, would you care to tell us how that started? Or? Yeah,

Unknown 0:39
so basically, me it's really hard to explain. Because I feel like with a lot of situations I might even say like we stood like men because obviously men and women can be abusive. Yeah, but what happened basically with my dad's like, it's like the frog in the pot thing right? You got to slowly turn on the heat. Yeah. And basically, my dad and my mom, they're both Canadian. They moved to the States, because my dad got a good job there. And they moved to New York. So my mom was separated from a lot of her family, a lot of her friends and that's where I was raised in New York. And so she was really isolated. Right? I think that's important to know. And then things were just kind of like, No, I think they were kind of normal for a bit. There was lots of stuff personally with me. Like do you do to me, but that wasn't like as much as important because I had no control. I couldn't leave that was like a kid right? But um, yeah, so as we got older, he started getting a lot more into alcohol. And that started to bring out a lot worse stuff. He was just a lot of like a moat is more like, verbal and emotional, abusive stuff. And then he got a really good job in China. So he moved to China. And they have a really big culture of drinking. And he was in tobacco. He worked in tobacco which is a lot of money, but it's also a lot lot corruption.

Unknown 2:02
Okay, I didn't know that. Yeah.

Unknown 2:05
Yeah. There's tobacco in China's like, it's very big, but it's also very corrupt and stuff like that. So he was, he was coming home like, wasted, they were getting him drunk. Like they were drinking water and giving him like vodka to get him drunk. So he was coming home wasted. He was like walking around forests and stuff like that cheese's and he was getting really mad. Yeah, and he was starting to get mad and eventually, some stuff happened. And my mom found out he was having an affair. Okay. And he flipped out on her. She took his like, I remember one day she tried to hide it. And she figured it out. She took his phone and he started breaking down like doors trying to get his phone. And she I think at one point like she was angry, he was yelling at her like blaming her for blaming me because I had to be hospitalized for a little bit outside the country. And she locked him out. He was screaming somebody who's good kill himself and stuff like that. And threatened to drive off like a bridge. And I'm trying to think I'm trying to like get like a rough outline of it all. Yeah, no worries. Yeah, so basically, I just started escalating war with physical. I was in therapy and my therapist started telling me to like get out of the house, because there's nothing you can do. But when you're like 16 in China, and you barely speak Chinese. And your dad's like, throwing shit around and breaking doors and shit. And already has a history of being abusive towards you. You kind of have to get out like so I was crashing at Friends places. And then my mum, and I was just saying I was late as possible. And I come home and then one day my mom like asked me why I was doing it. And one day I just snapped because I don't cuz you've been married to him for 20 years, like 2030 years she had didn't really have any other support. So she she didn't know who to talk to. She didn't know who to really like. She didn't know where to reach out for help. And I think like when you've been in a marriage that long when it's like the frog pot boiling, you don't know what is normal was not. So I ended up having to help her a lot with that too. I think the one of the first things and actually, because my therapist started telling me like what to do to help her because she would not come see therapy. That's a lot of responsibility. Because yeah, because she was just too ashamed. Like, because there was that shame, right? Like, especially like cuz she was praised a bit more traditional, right? So there's that shame of her like, I was supposed to be a good wife. Again, it's her fault for not being a good wife. And so she reached out to friends, and she reached out to a friend who'd gone through a divorce and she called her I think it was like, after he flipped his shit one night. I think it was 12am Our time so it was like 12pm Their time because that friend was in Massachusetts and she called and just said like he had an affair and he's being violent, what should I do? And that's when they said you need to get out of the country. Okay, so it's important to note that my little sister's passport needed renewing around this time and they got it renewed and I'm trying to do but it takes a little bit from this in the passport to you and like get a process and send it back. Yeah. So my dad would do stuff to keep her around. Like he would try to convince her Oh, I'm gonna change I'm gonna go to therapy, blah, blah, blah. But the therapy once he stopped going, city didn't need it. Like he tried to buy time right and he started saying stuff like, oh, Kiki's renew a passport. I need her passport. You like me to stay here so we can get her new passport. Give me her passport. Yeah, so, because my mom's not gonna leave my old sister here on the road with him? No, because he was really horrible to her when I was hospitalized. Like demanding her cook and clean for him. Like some 1314 year old girl. So yeah, he took the past. He tried to take the passport. We kept refusing. We said book flights now because in the book flights, he did book The flights but he was like trying to buy time at the same time because I don't think he thought she would go through with it. And she if we flew up to Massachusetts, and it was like 27 hours total flying people these horrible airports. And he was still calling us trying to figure out we had to she couldn't you know where to find a place to live? Like you guys mentioned that. So what she did was she reached out to the realtor who sold our house in New York. Okay, okay. Yeah. And he, because we lived in a very small town. There weren't a lot of rentals, and she said, Do you have a rental for me? And he said, Okay, I've got this one rental. It's like, it's fairly small, but it's big enough. So she rented that. And then she got had to get a car to rent. I had to help her like get a car to rent and go up to them and talk about that. She went then she went over to other friends and told them but what happened? And that's when she started being told like this isn't normal. This isn't okay. Like you were like, in a really shitty situation because I don't think she realized it.

Unknown 7:00
No, I think a lot of people in situations like that don't know what normal is at that point. That's something

Unknown 7:06
Yeah, that's just something I was really thinking about, like with those interviews is that I don't know. Like people like that. A lot. People don't realize that they say choose better. Just get out. They don't realize it. And a lot of this stuff is a cycle. Yep. Like a lot of people who end up in these situations. I've been in them before. Yeah, my mom was in it before she's to this day. She claims shit like men. Like I had older family members sexually harass me a lot growing up and she claims that's just normal. She just says that's normal. That's what older men do to this day. That's so a lot of this stuff is normal for them. I don't think they realize it. No, they don't. But also the other thing is that especially the abusers if they're leaving fleeing violence and stuff like that, their abusers are always like trying to contact them. They're always trying to retain that control. Like he was always calling. He was always like going like he would flip flop up like or he would like say Oh, I'm not talking to her then yeah, I'm talking to her or like you're ruining the marriage. It's your fault and I'm sorry, blah, blah, blah. He still sent her letters and stuff like that sent her a birthday card. She said I don't want any contact to you over email. He dragged out the divorce. So we continue contacting her and he was like, I hope we can put this rough patch behind us in the past and be friends like so a lot of them like continued that control. I think it's a lot of the things that these people who identify as women they struggle with. Or like I think anyone in general gender is that. You can go

Unknown 8:43
on, mom moved twice for your father's job. Yeah. Did she also work or

Unknown 8:49
she couldn't. That was another thing that that isolation too, is because she moved from she moved from Canada to America. Yeah, it took 10 years for them to gain some citizenship. Because they moved right around 911. Her mother got very sick. And she couldn't visit her mother because of 911 like war issues. They wouldn't if they let her across the border. They wouldn't let her back because there were so strict on it and she was an immigrant even though she was Canadian.

Unknown 9:18
And us is only one time visa. So for lottery winnings, students, even if they get the result, they can only go once and they cannot go outside of us. Yeah, till they're finish everything. Yeah. I think also like, because she had to move every time even if she developed some

Unknown 9:39
like professionals. Yeah, because she did. She did for a while, like after 10 years on you're helping her study for a citizenship. She eventually got a job. And of course he would demean the job and be like, Oh, it's just something in wage bullshit. Like I'm actually because he did he made most of the money. And he, yeah, especially he didn't have a job. And so it was hard for her and especially when you've been at work for like 1015 years. Yeah. And you don't have a degree because she, she dropped she got academic probation at UVic dropped out and just became a paralegal full time to support him through his master's. She paid the rent in Vancouver. So she couldn't get a degree or anything. And she had the experience, but it was hard for her to find the job itself.

Unknown 10:24
Yeah. I've heard that when we were going through the data that the previous research team had passed off to us. Yeah. We learned that I think something ridiculous like 99% of intimate partner violence. Yes. experiences for people Yeah. are preceded by financial abuse. Yeah, it's like a protective factor. Almost. Where it's like the one person like slowly starts to assume control of the finances and all the decisions for them as a family or a couple Yeah, and it just like like I said, with the the frog boiling thing, just slowly lose more and more autonomy almost.

Unknown 11:02
Yeah. And the stuff that happens when I was younger, I think my mom knew it was wrong. But she I remember her like flat out saying to me, Maddie, don't tell you when this was going on. Your dad could lose his job. Your dad could like we could lose our income. So that's tough. Yeah. So I think like that, like luckily he never transferred all he could have turned for all that's something in China to mom didn't we didn't have any bank accounts when I'm had to ask him for money. Because she couldn't get a bank account. He was allowed one because you know he had jobs in China. He had the permit and everything. But we couldn't get

Unknown 11:39
also when you when you move back to us, yeah. How did you like if you know about this, how do you feel like because they do credit check everything when they're going to like rent a place to you and like your income. There's a lot going on there and you're gonna rent a place. Oh, yeah. So do you know how my mom handled everything? Yeah.

Unknown 12:02
So um, we did have we had their savings was joint. So if he knew because he is he's a very intelligent man. He's got his master's in engineering, went to UBC like he's he was very smart. He knew that if he transferred all his money out in the divorce, which he did want to divorce. It would not look good on him at all. Right? If you take all your money out, you're gonna look like an asshole. So he had he we grew up really poorly because he just hoarded so much money in savings. He grew up poor. And we grew up like on the poverty line because he even though we had this money, he heard it so we had a lot of income in the bank account to justify things. He also I was gonna say, the renter who were looking for, we this wasn't a time it's really hard to imagine Victoria because rentals are so horrible here.

Unknown 12:54
Yeah. But yeah, they really are.

Unknown 12:58
We were living like, and even then even like where we live now. rentals are really hard to come by. Like it's just something like this. But when we moved back there was around 2017 2018. The person who had been like looking for someone to rent this space and looking for like four years so we said we want to rent it. We have clearly had like the savings. And we had the recommendation. He knew that we just sold a house that was in like, that was like for like a couple 100 grand. And he was like okay, and he just rented it like that. And she also did have credit because she had a credit card. They had a joint credit card. Yeah, so they didn't build up credit. They put their name on both things. Like one of the first things she did is like she is smart. She's smart, too. Right. So like she considered that too. Because also her friends told her that she Yeah, she put her money she put she set up her own credit card. She said her own bank account. And she also had some savings in a Canadian bank accounts from her inheritance that only had her name on it. And that was money that she wanted us to go to us. My sisters Yeah, that's how she handled the financial stuff he did. He did hide money though. And that was a really big issue because he said you have to deal with the taxes. Like after she left him he was like you'd left me banned me on my own. You did the taxes. So she did the taxes and the IRS investigated us because it turns out my dad had earned another like three 400k and he had been porting it to this little bank. Well, the resolution to that is that the courts made him pay it to us, my sister said That's good. Trying to maintain professionalism. Ya know, like, that's the good part. So, but yeah, like that's the other thing too. She knew a lawyer. She's a paralegal. She worked with a divorce lawyer Good for her. She worked for a divorce lawyer and that lawyer became her paralegal and gave her a discount because she worked with us for so long. She helped her with cases. That's awesome. So I think like, a lot of these women are like, identifies when we're in people in these situations, these connections to find this kind of stuff, like these pre existing things. Yeah.

Unknown 15:15
And actually on that point, like just a personal observation from all the stories that I've researched and looked through and heard. It seems like the loss of those connections is kind of what leads to the problem in the first place. Yeah,

Unknown 15:27
that's the big one. That's what I was. Yeah, that's that's like what I was thinking about. I was in that which I emphasize what I noticed. Yeah. And it's that they use connections. Yeah. As like,

Unknown 15:39
people start to like, like, you know, how when when you're going through school and like when your best friend like gets in a relationship that kind of disappear into that relationship for a while and like, you know, I'll see them in a few months once they've gotten past the honeymoon phase and like, what's up, guys? For a while, a new girlfriend. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. So it's hard because like that's to some degree, like that's normal, but you don't know like, if your friend is going through something toxic where like, this person is also like, slowly trying to influence them into like thinking badly or negatively about the people that are close to them. And like, slowly starting to sever those connections. Yeah, like no, no, you can put more trust in me and my financial decisions and stuff. It's

Unknown 16:24
Oh, yeah, like Yeah, we're gonna build a family stuff like that. Like, Yeah, cuz he convinced her that she has a lot of friends in Victoria. She was a cadet. She also was born and raised in Victoria, right? She like she was so popular. She would walk down the street like after work, because she worked at her father's office for a little bit. She walked down the street interview someone she knew every single day, coming up to her being like Oh, Jennifer, how you doing? Yeah, he convinced her that her friends didn't care about her because they never visited when the reality is, is that plane tickets to New York is so expensive, like they couldn't afford to, and they always they always would get excited when we come to visit Victoria. And she was still convinced that they didn't care about her even after she flew me out for a little bit. And I lived with one of her friends for a bit. They're always asking when's, when's your mom coming back? What's your mom's doing that? So I think it's like she was convinced that they didn't care. Yeah, when it wasn't when it wasn't the truth. Yeah. Even now that she's back and then she moved back because after my sister graduated, and even now she's back. She She still has her friends. Like really old friends calling her up being like, we're where we going

Unknown 17:29
today? Yeah, that's good. That's really good.

Unknown 17:32
Yeah. So that's the thing. Like I know my story isn't as bad as some of these other woman's for sure. It's

Unknown 17:38
totally legit. Yeah. In fact, like, if you don't mind me saying it sounds like there's a lot of relatable aspects between your stories and like other stories.

Unknown 17:47
That's what yeah, that's why I thought it might help like, even though it's like I'm obviously a lot more lucky. I definitely definitely, especially when it comes to money and stuff like that. We definitely had that and connections.

Unknown 17:57
Yeah, but no it's

Unknown 17:59
definitely helpful. Yeah, totally appreciate it. But I was just gonna say, yeah, I really want to emphasize that to the connections. Yeah, because I think that's how a lot of women navigate this. I do have friends who also have been through this. I grew up in a really poor town where there was a lot of violence like this. I had friends crash at my place. It's because their dads were doing similar things to my dad. That's the thing I noticed. They don't really work through shelters like this, because they don't think it's that bad.

Unknown 18:26
Right, right. Yeah, because that's like admitting that there's something huge going on. So instead, I'm just gonna go to like my friend's couch for the night and, yeah, kind of what you mean.

Unknown 18:34
Yeah. And also, they don't either want a minute or they just don't realize it. It's just normal. Like so my friend. We just go home. My dad was kind of weird. Like I was talking to another friend, her father had like anger issues. She said like once she said, like your something on your face, then just flat out slapped her. And she said that girl is just normal. Your dad My dad just has a temper, which that's just normal for them. And they don't think I don't know these resources because like, that's not what's going on for me. Yeah. So yeah.

Unknown 19:11
Do you know the situation

Unknown 19:15
I think it can be that sometimes I think can be sometimes how they were born and raised. Like my mom did grew up with her brothers do have anger issues too. And one of her older brothers massive alcoholic do so. I've it's normal. I've noticed that there's stuff that I think is normal relationships that isn't normal. I don't realize it because I grew up with like this. And I didn't really grew up with any like no family members to like, you know, model it for me.

Unknown 19:42
Right? Actually, that word exactly like we were discussing at one point. Yeah. Like what is counseling and therapy like how does that work for someone like the if you try to like step back and like kind of analyze like, you know what, what is going on? What's the word, the inner mechanism here that's actually working for people? Which is maybe a strange approach. Yeah, totally strange. But because we're trying to come up with a solution. It's important, take that step back. And what we kind of realized was that most people take like, anywhere from four to six attempts to actually find a counselor or a therapist that works for them. Yeah. And we believe the reason for that is that they're forming a relationship. They are Yeah. And regardless of the information that that professional like shares with them about their situation, and like what steps to take or not take, what's kind of the most important thing happening underneath all of that is that they're forming a dynamic with another human being that involves openness, trust vulnerability. Boundaries. Yeah, that's and that becomes a template almost like a role model relationship for for other aspects of their lives. Yeah. Where it's like, you go to counseling, you're like, Oh, I didn't realize that that isn't an unacceptable way for someone to treat me. Yeah. Now when I go back to my normal life, it's not that's something I have to deal with and confront, because I have that knowledge. Yeah. We're not sure how to handle it with like, an

Unknown 21:12
app or how to tell them like yeah, like how they realize Yeah, cuz the human relationship. I don't know. Because I mean, I agree with you. There is a lot of denial aspect to it, too. My mom was definitely in a lot of denial about it. Because like I said, she went up to me was like, Maddie, don't tell anyone. She knew parts of it were normal. He was saying horrible stuff. She said horrible stuff to me, but he was also saying horrible stuff. To her and he was falling down stairs drunk. But um, yeah. I think there's so many like aspects. There's denial. There's like shame. There's like, just not knowing it's not normal. Yeah. So what?

Unknown 21:51
So the approach that we're kind of taking with with our projects, yeah, is where because it's like a such a complex thing. We're trying to choose like, one area to focus first in someone's journey to recovery, which is sort of like when they end up in temporary housing. They don't really know where to go next. Yeah. And that's kind of like our main focus point for like our interviews for the next week is like observing that problem from different perspectives and different organizations and stuff. Do you think it was a bigger problem or like a better sort of like, critical point in someone's journey that we should focus on

Unknown 22:29
I think, the thing is, is that with temporary housing, it's true, that they probably don't know where to go and they probably get really overwhelmed. But they also are really overwhelmed by just like, dealing with like, the fact that this has happened to them. It just makes sense. Like my mom spent a lot of days when she went back to New York, even though she had a place to live. She just spent a lot she didn't work she spent a lot of days just on the couch crying, researching like midlife crisis. How is this like, how can I get him back stuff like that, like, is this normal? Yeah, why me? As far as to like when they're so overwhelmed, and especially if they can't find that housing anymore? What's the abusive partner going to do? They're going to read they want control. They're going to reach out and say, I heard you can't find a place you can come live with me. I'll change I'll promise I'll be better. And they're already so overwhelmed. And they already like are so confused by like so much, just because there's so much manipulation when it comes to partners like these. They're gonna go back

Unknown 23:37
from the stats that we were given, it takes like anywhere from four to seven attempts for them to like, leave for the last time. But yeah, they, they all I think, go back very frequently. Yeah. You think that's kind of like, a more crucial part point is like when they've left for that first time or?

Unknown 23:55
Yeah, because they're not gonna want to work with you know, for real Yeah, they're not gonna want to work. with you guys. If they think there's still a chance because I mean, I hate to say it, but it's just, I'm just trying to be brutally honest about it. Yeah, they're gonna trust the person. They've been like in this relationship more because there always has to be trust for them to get into relationship with them. Yeah, but they're gonna want to trust them more than they are going to trust someone who's a social worker who makes them feel ashamed. Yeah, like it's not even your it's not guys's fault. They make they feel ashamed. But they associate you with that. Yeah. And they're going to they're going to want to go back to their normal life. Yeah.

Unknown 24:27
Why is it you think that they have that much trust in their partner still, which is probably like a really strange open ended question, but we're kind of exploring here.

Unknown 24:35
i Yeah. I've been like, I've been like in a similar relationship to my mom again, after that. I got out of it's just like, I think it's just the frog in the pot thing. It's just like, normalcy to him. Right? Just becomes normal. Yeah, it's just normal. And you just like first of all, they already think like, that's who you should trust stuff like that. Yeah. And, like, it's like, I don't know how to describe it. It's hard to describe like, first of all, I think it's normal for someone to treat them like that. They spent so much time with them. There's like the sunk cost thing. Right. And they're also saying stuff like I'll be better I can change a lot of these people are usually really good with using their words to control. Like they usually know how to like, get them. And they're convinced, I don't know how to describe

Unknown 25:29
this, like, three phases of how this thing happens. Yeah. Do you want to like go over that? Yeah. Yeah, we can maybe like, yeah, see which part is the most challenging?

Unknown 25:40
Absolutely. We read through a lot of like, experiences and stories. And with the stigma workshop. We heard other people's stories and it's probably not like the best categorization but we're trying we're trying

Unknown 25:55
No, no, it's fine. Basically, there's like

Unknown 25:57
a before phase of them like experiencing an abusive relationship. Yeah, during and after. Yeah. And then before would include sort of predictive factors where like, there's financial abuse starting to happen and loss of control or social connections start to get neglected. Really good, which are really slow, subtle things that happen and that's, that's what's kind of scary about it. And then the middle part, of course, is like, when you're in the middle of that dynamic. Yeah. And the last part is after you've left for, say that fourth to seventh time, yeah, and you're not going back. Yeah. And where do you go from there? How do you begin to rebuild? Yeah, that's kind of where our community partner wants us to focus? Yeah. But, of course, at the end of the day, they like anyone presented with the right information, who has like, who's funding all of this is going to want to focus where it's going to make the most impact. Yeah. So if we can show them that there's a better problem and a better solution. Yeah, better, quote, unquote. That's helpful because we can like make a better impact. So each each of those phases have like different problems. Yeah. And you can almost consider them as like different users in users of the interface.

Unknown 27:15
Sorry, that's a really good way to categorize.

Unknown 27:19
What do you think is like, feasible versus like, the bid best problem to focus on?

Unknown 27:25
Honestly, like, I know, I just spoke about how like, they're gonna go back and stuff like that, but the reality is, like, I just I helped my mom a lot with this stuff. I've helped some other friends with this stuff. You can't help. Who doesn't want help?

Unknown 27:39
That's the bottom line, isn't it?

Unknown 27:40
Yeah. So I think it's good that you guys are focusing on who needs who is willing to accept the help. Yeah, because even though you can help these women tell them this is wrong, blah, blah, blah. If you say to them, if they say I'm going back like he the look, he says, I'm trust him. I'm going back. There's nothing you can do. Because if you if you do like, no stake, you're just being as good as they are.

Unknown 28:05
That's a good point. It's they have to decide that for themselves.

Unknown 28:10
Yeah. So that's why I think it's good that you guys are focusing on that. Like, I know, I spoke a lot about like, how, like, the abuser will get them to come back. Yeah. But the reality is if they want to go back through and go back, right, well, you can help them like understand it, and that might help them eventually realize I'm not going back. Yeah, I think I agree. I focused on the people who want help.

Unknown 28:32
Fair enough. In that case, then if we're if we're like exploring the different scenarios, and let's say they're in that section now where they know they're not going back. Yeah. They're probably dealing with a lot of legal scenario trying to like separate if they've been together for a long time years. Yeah. And like, how to explain it. One thing we try to do is like a sort of a, a user journey of whatever solution we're trying to come up with. So it's like, yeah, see, like, you know, you step into the sort of the mind frame of your they're on the data they're deciding to leave? Yeah. What do they do? Like the collective stuff? Where do they go? What's the biggest problem?

Unknown 29:17
I can talk about that for sure. First thing my mom did when she decided to leave the first thing, she said like two weeks crying on the couch. First thing she did was figure out where to go. Okay, well, there was Victoria or New York. Victoria had her family and friends and stuff like that New York had like, her sisters and I entirely different city. Yeah, because, well, she was in China, so she had to go somewhere. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So she was had to figure out Victoria and New York. So that was a big one, like figure out where to go, like, should she be with her family? Should she give us our like, we grew up in New York like she should she give us our lives in New York. Should she go to our friends in New York? Yeah, she decided on New York because she was close with your friends and family there. And she wanted to get us back on our life. Okay. And then it was find a home. Yeah, find a rental. Because there's if you can't find a rental in New York, then you're going to Victoria, right.

Unknown 30:13
Second most best place in North America. Yeah, exactly.

Unknown 30:15
Yeah. She done you get married. She's like, not happy about it here at all. No, she misses New York quite a lot. But um, yeah. So find a rental. Right. Then it was? Yeah. So find a rental. Then it was figure out how to get there. Okay. So when she found a rental through her, her own realtor found the rental got it secured. Yeah, she actually no, I guess we didn't secured a rental. At first she went to visit it first. Because she didn't real estate law a lot. She knows like to visit first. Yeah, yeah. But um, yeah, after she found a potential rental and knew there was a pace she figured out a way to get there. Okay. So, and she figured out how to get how to get her stuff in there. We had to pack color shit into two suitcases each and fly out. And she figured out where to go after that. Which was crashing at friend's houses for I think about a month or two hotels, stuff like that. Right. And then after that, it was the car. Getting a car. Yeah, because we lived in a small town. And we had to go around somewhere. Get there somewhere, right. I'm trying to think of what else yeah, she viewed the rental she accepted. It. So after she got like those living essentials, credit concerns and living essentials cuz I guess there's also the question of like income too. So I think that would be another one is like, yeah, I don't know where that would fit in. Because she had luckily we have loft good savings from my dad. Did there take it out? Yeah. Yeah, they probably have to. That's who she did consider where to get a job to. But she knew she had enough in savings that she didn't have to worry about it for a little bit. Right. So that's lucky. Yeah. No, that's why I keep saying like we're really lucky with how things ended. Up. Because we had so many connections. And so many friends like still do. We contacted a bunch of them and they even contacted our dad and he just refused to talk to him. Like they were family friends. They were like, just go back to your fucking kids man. And he just he just refused. But um, yeah, so I think that's like the big ones. They get like the living essentials down first. Yeah. Then after that. They deal with like, my mom did at least she dealt with her own personal stuff. And kind of dealt with the relationship. Like when she she realized she was out of the danger. And even then she thought about going back like she cried a lot. Like I abandoned him stuff like that. A lot of guilt about Yeah, that's when she after that, like she started to therapy. So like, I think it's like living a living essentials first, like, figure out where to live. Figure out a place to live and then regain like Regain Financial independence because like where they live to. They have to like, if they don't have the money like my mom, did. They have to get a job. So they need to figure out where they live based on the job based on family friends. Yeah. Even if they get the couch surf for like a couple of weeks on friends because they might have that temporary housing. But um, I think maybe, I don't know. Like, if they lived a family, there's usually prior commit connections there.

Unknown 33:25
Yeah, yeah. I was noticing that like when you when you mentioned her deciding where to go. You chose the place where you have the most social connections.

Unknown 33:33
Yeah, that's definitely and the most people who reached back out to her like, yeah, so that's interesting. So that because if you think about if your social, she's like very big on connections, she's a very social person. If you have the social connections, yeah. You'll probably be able to because What'd she do? She asked a realtor she had connections to find a place to live. She asked like she asked her friend to find a job. She had her friend there to get her a divorce lawyer. Yeah. And she also thought about our connections to while moving there. Where do my kids have their friends in New York? Yeah.

Unknown 34:13
So I'm assuming most women in this situation probably wouldn't have as much connections. Yeah, so they probably might not have like a lot of like, social connections as well. Yeah. social connections that actually, yeah. So in that case, I wouldn't know. They might went into in that case, though.

Unknown 34:43
Yeah. That's why I think like, it's important to consider that to into your solutions. Because like, Yeah, I think it would help them. Like, especially like housing is obviously super important stuff like that. But I think like while they're in temporary housing might be helpful for them to be introduced to connections,

Unknown 34:59
right. Would it be worth seeing them that like, because, yeah, from what you've you've mentioned that other stories is like, our original like, problem statement assumption was they don't know where to go. Yeah, but that doesn't entirely seem true, because it's like they go to close friends or they stay on couches or even last resort, like they know. Like shelters exist. Yeah. So they know those exists. In almost seems like, maybe instead of like they don't know where to go. They don't have anyone to connect to. But yeah, the more limited your social network is, the more at risk you

Unknown 35:35
are. Yeah, I think that's a big one.

Unknown 35:39
Especially because in our demographic that we're looking at. First Nations women are over represented. Yeah. And so maybe there have facing a lot of like, stigma in the communities around here, especially with racism, yeah, racism, and so maybe that is limiting their social connections and so that is causing them to be over represented.

Unknown 36:04
I think that's a big thing. Yeah. Because I think it's, I think the connections are just really important. Yeah. Yeah. And like you said, a lot of them don't have those connections. Yeah.

Unknown 36:15
How do you think you could help someone build a social network? If they're, they're coming out of a situation like that? And I don't mean, Facebook. I'm like LinkedIn and like networking,

Unknown 36:25
but like just talking to people.

Unknown 36:27
Because, because there's like a lot of like, shame and guilt about what they've been through. And so like, yeah, what do you

Unknown 36:36
trying to think? Because the thing is, is that if you set them up with people who are like, do volunteer work, what do you think? You think I'm like, I'm one of those people. There's even more shame. Right? Because like, Oh, if I'm if someone's a volunteer for me, I think what they need is like genuine friends.

Unknown 36:54
Totally agree. 100% agree,

Unknown 36:57
if that makes sense. I don't know how to exactly go about that. Yeah, but I think like what they need is because I feel like when you talk when they talk to these people, there can be a sense of like, like, whether it's intentional or not, like give me a sense of I look down on you, pity you, when you helping these women and they see that and they're just they just feel shame that they don't want to deal with that. They don't see it as like, you and I are equals

Unknown 37:19
or even looking down on themselves. Even if that's not coming from the other person. They're like interpreting that with everything they do. Yes. They've gone through this whole psychological journey of being belittled and like, yeah, it's not healthy. Totally agree like genuine friends genuine connection

Unknown 37:35
is Yeah, even just Gen genuine for the people that are helping them because I feel like a lot of these people who offer this kind of therapy quite a lot. They like one of the ones I need. They just like go nope too. Especially when I was split. One of the ones I like just note to especially when I was a kid was like the ones who were just like, they clearly looked down on me like they're like, Oh, poor little girl, blah, blah, blah. That's not what they want. No, because that doesn't. I don't know if that makes sense.

Unknown 38:02
It totally makes sense. And when you're talking about like, your mom's process of like, finding a place to live, and then arranging transportation and setting up all these opening new bank accounts and stuff like you could provide a system that just gives that to someone but maybe a really important step in the journey of recovery is doing that for yourself and kind of like getting a sense of you learn a sense of autonomy again, and like proving to yourself like okay, I can get over this. I agree

Unknown 38:35
with that. It gives you a lot more of a I think she felt a lot more independent, like strong after doing that. Again, your bride helped her pick out furniture, and she'd be like, I've figured this out on my own like even today, even today. She'll figure out something on her like she's called me for help when it comes to something big like getting health insurance, stuff like that. She still goes Maddie helped me out. I can't get help. When she figures out something like even if it's just like an email thing. She's like, Man, I'm so smart. I figured it out on my own. So there's like a pinch of pride. So I think to doing that, I think it gives them more confidence if they can figure it out. And I think that's where the friendship comes into. Because with a friend it's not like your support system. Yeah. Or like, like, I guess that could like be replicated. But what I'm saying is that like it's not like they Yeah, they're just kind of yeah, they're just kind of helping you guide it and that's it too. She's not I'm not doing it for her. I'm just like kind of guiding her on how to do it. Yeah, cuz that's something she'll say a lot. I won't do it myself. Let me do it myself one time again after you showed me totally

Unknown 39:32
agree with that. And I think you're right like genuine friendships provide that looks like they're not doing it for you. They're supporting you. They're like, supportive of your growth and thriving. Definitely interesting trying to like, apply that to our projects. Today, any ideas on like, something practical?

Unknown 39:56
And trying to think Yeah, cuz if you guys do make like an application,

Unknown 40:00
yeah. I'm sorry.

Unknown 40:03
You could provide steps or what they should do. Yeah. And then show them like resources and then just leave it at that. Because then they can figure it out recovery. Yeah, just like a framework just like, here's step one. You should work on this. Do you have, like, that makes sense? Yeah. Step two. If you need more help, here is some resources to help you but then just give them like, here's this, here's this, here's this and just leave it at that like here. Here's what you should do set up a bank account. Here are some banks that offer this like low rates or whatever, right? It's just this

Unknown 40:35
instead of like, providing them with, you know, just a random list of resources that's available to them. Here's the priority, sort of like step by step,

Unknown 40:43
because it can get so overwhelming, especially when you're just like you just come out of it you're on your own. You can just get so long where you're like breaking it down step by step and then letting them do it themselves. Totally. Good idea. Just put them in the ring. It's a great idea.

Unknown 41:02
I want to know like because you want have some savings. And like so yeah. Yeah. Some some people don't they just Yeah, most don't mutual thing and then like something happened and they can't access that they have nothing else. So how long did it take for your mom to kind of like finish the divorce process and like get our money back because some people they just have like crap money to their partner. Yeah, and that fun because that definitely affects how long this whole journey of finding housing and a job and everything.

Unknown 41:37
Yeah. Yeah, so like I said, like luckily the name was on both of their accounts. So if he withdrew money she she's a paralegal. She knows how to get she would notice who she'd know to like attack. And she knew she could crash other people's places. But um, divorce honestly, it took about two years. He dragged it out. He's like initial claims. Where I shouldn't have to pay her a dime. He was making insane amounts of money. He was like, I didn't have to pay or anything. I shouldn't have to do anything. My kids. I think when he right. I don't have if my children want to go to college, they can get a scholarship like their middle sister did when he was legally required. To buy the steak did to his income, provide support. So a lot of them drag it out.

Unknown 42:24
So a lot of animosity and a lot of fear is I think a lot of fear of losing control.

Unknown 42:29
That's the thing like that the money Yeah, especially from him like it's used to control but it's also like, for them, there's that fear of like, what like, like when you feel like the world's coming down on you because you don't have the money and stuff like that. And it just is so overwhelming, because it's like, I don't know how to survive from it. Yeah. Yeah, I think that's important. I can't really provide much guidance on how did you how to use like the money but I can tell you that divorce took about two years but only because also it happened COVID hit right in the middle of it and they couldn't get they couldn't get the core

Unknown 43:16
your past my period Canada. Yeah. And then, but they like to have everything. Clean us like yeah, proper funds and everything. Yes. I'm in China. When you think about

Unknown 43:35
okay, like Yeah, actually, she told me a lot about this. I didn't know this much. The money in China is just gone. He probably has quite a lot of money from it. It's just gone. I think he bought a house and he recently just quit his job and bought it and just moved out. Because it's worked fine and for being such an asshole. But um, yeah, he he the money in China. We're not seeing any of it. We couldn't prove it was there. The money in the US? It was they were very honest with their finances. They work together. Yeah. Like I said, like, it's not like, I don't know, even though these people are abusers. They are people. And they weren't always like this. But yeah, that money was let's say the thing I meant to say with trust who they are people. Yeah, a lot of them like a lot of these women know that they're people.

Unknown 44:21
That's not something I would ever say in an interview. But you've said it first. And that's like, I think one of the hardest parts is that the abusers like yeah, they're, they're suffering in their own ways, too. Like there's generational trauma and like, reasons why people act the way that they do. It doesn't excuse it, but it does explain it. Yeah, and I think that's probably one of the trickiest parts for someone leaving is that they have empathy for that person. They know that person. Yeah. You know, it's like, yes, the behavior is absolutely unacceptable. Yeah. But there's someone still suffering underneath that and like maybe a different project could be focused on the abuser and like, sort of, like helping them in a different way. Yeah. But this sort of has to come first.

Unknown 45:05
Yeah, no, I just thought like that's important to mention. Like, I just realized that the trust that's why I just went off topic for sure. But um, yeah, but anyway, didn't go back to it. Yeah, they had my mom had some money in Canada. Well, they when they moved to America, they didn't have much money at all. So most of their money was in America and the joint bank account. But I had some money in Canada because inheritance for whatever family members died, and he knew that money, he could not have any claim to it, because it just had my mom's name on it. Yeah, and that money, and actually, he did try to stick a claim in it. And my mom's agreement was I want it to go to the children because that's what my mother would have wanted. And that's what the courts agreed on. And the money in America was split both ways. Because that's what happens with it. Usually most of the time. stuff. Yeah, but looks like other stuff. Like he had a truck that went to him because she had a car and she didn't need it. Like there's a lot of stuff we just gotta like, throw in the towel with whatever. The money that yeah, like I said the money thing she didn't know about that bonus IRA until she found out through the IRA. The only reason we got that money, it's because of that. So there's Yeah, there was a lot of money that he kept that she just like when you've been divorced, like when you're going through this process for like two years. You just give up. It's exhausting.

Unknown 46:24
Somebody just wants to be over.

Unknown 46:26
That's yeah, that's what it's going on. I mean, she has her family. Members are still fighting over a state stuff for like, this happened like seven years ago. She just wants to be over. When she just give up. She's another important point for WISEWOMAN go back. Eventually just wanted to be over and what's the quickest fix? But yeah, that's how it worked. And they I did ask her about that too. I said, weren't you guys married in Canada? Why didn't it go through in Canada? And she said because they lived in New York for so long because most of their finances and they've been married in New York for like 20 years. So that's where the divorce cuz I mean, he was in South Carolina well, but it's took place in the state of New York type of courts. She was a paralegal. Yeah, yeah, she Yeah, she does know quite a lot about it. And her lawyer helped her out a lot.

Unknown 47:19
Yeah something happens where they Yeah, just set up their lives. So they can get out of a situation.

Unknown 47:34
Yeah, cuz that's the big thing too, is what happens next. Like I remember when we moved to New York, like I know she was playing and stuff like that, but that's what my little sister and I were we never said it but we were thinking in our heads what our whole entire lives it just got ruined what was happening next.

Unknown 47:50
Was that kind of hard to for you guys to define for yourselves like as as an individual outside of this all Yeah.

Unknown 47:57
Well, yeah, cuz it was just like, What can we do? There's nothing we can because we weren't kids, like obviously adults, like woman escaping situations. But it's like, we just don't know what's going on. It just feels surreal. Yeah, if that makes sense. Totally feels like almost like you're living in a dream and like this shouldn't be happening and you're thinking that multiple times like I'm not one of these. I'm not like this. This doesn't happen to me this happens to other people, which is a big mindset they probably have totally

Unknown 48:26
is this like, do you mind if I ask like it's kind of behind you know, like in your life, like, how are you? Are you okay?

Unknown 48:37
Yeah, I'm good. I have really, I have like issues when I get into relationships with men and that's about the only thing and I helped I lost a lot of my teenage years because I helped my mom out with so much of this stuff, right? I was like helping her like when she went to get that car I was with her when she went to get that furniture I was with her when she went to check out the rental. She was asking me what do you think? Do you think we should live here? Yeah, because there's also that second guessing to like, what should I do? Totally. And that's what she would. She would do that a lot with me. She still does that today. It's to the point where my sisters will I'll told my sisters like Be quiet and they'll be quiet. Because it's that like I was if I didn't approve of something, she wouldn't do it. But yeah, it's about didn't pass. He sends me Christmas cards and birthday cards since he let like money for my birthday and Christmas and I thank him for it. But overall, like I don't talk to him. So a bit of a weirdo. Weirdo. He told my little sister he wants to just live on a train and be a hobo. So like, I know, it's like, I know I shouldn't be laughing but it's at this point where it's just like what else can you do? Like okay, whatever, dude. So, yeah, it's pretty much in the past. After a while, yeah, it's been at least like three or four years.

Unknown 50:01
Yeah. So life goes on. I suppose. Yeah, that's

Unknown 50:05
that's, that's my motto is things move on. So the only effect is had is that I don't know. Like, male relationships. I have trouble navigating them. Right.

Unknown 50:16
Right. I was gonna I was gonna ask if it has resulted in any FOMO I was gonna ask if you've got like any resentment due to your experience to like a certain gender like No, I won't we have a negative.

Unknown 50:35
No, I don't want any resentment. I have more fear by going to a relationship that was really similar to this one that went on and I my mom was in. Yeah, so it repeats patterns. Right? But um, yeah, no resentment. My mom has resentment a lot. She will like she hears about me dating a guy and she does not like it.

Unknown 50:55
No, that makes sense.

Unknown 50:57
Yeah, she said stuff like why would i She was she's told me a lot of really bad stuff. She has said she does have resentment she said stuff like don't get married. He'll ditch you for younger woman when you're 30. And no man deserves you Maddie like just like

Unknown 51:16
yeah, if you've got like, such experiences, then how do you like because you can really tell a person's true colors right? Yeah. So how would you really gauge someone going into a relationship, right?

Unknown 51:33
Yeah. Like, you're fine was a great person at the beginning.

Unknown 51:41
That's changed our life. That's why I wanted to point out he's a person too. And every single time like, we have so many all these old friends. My mom's old Cadet friends. My dad was also a cadet. They're his friends too. And they always like one of my uncle's. She's just very, very brutally honest. He's flat out said, Why did your dad do it? I don't get it. Why? I just said, I don't know. You're asking the wrong person. And then yeah, a lot of them like still talk about my dad. They go younger. Like they tell stories about him more. It's just completely normal. Yeah, people change. That's why I think it's important to point that out to a lot of these women get caught up. Or at least my mom did get caught up in like what they used to be. Yeah, yeah, no kidding. Instead of looking at reality, what it is.

Unknown 52:33
You said you had a hard time like when it comes to like forming relationships. Yeah. Are there like red flags that you're aware of? Or like able to pick up or like, how do you tell if it is there a way that you can tell? It's like going to be a bad partner in that way.

Unknown 52:49
I have a lot of trouble with it. I have like a lot of the red flags I can pick up on now. Or because I've been told them right not because I was able to like know them myself. Is because I was able to tell them like stuff like them demeaning me.

Unknown 53:02
Yeah, just like belittling behavior in general. Yeah,

Unknown 53:06
there's stuff I used to think about ex boyfriend that was normal. Let's saying stuff like your friends don't want to talk to you blah, blah, blah. that I thought was normal. Oh, he's just been protected. He just wants to make sure I'm

Unknown 53:17
safe. Right. Probably kind of masking a lot of things and like just keeping you safe.

Unknown 53:22
Yeah. Oh, he's just keeping me safe. He just wants to make sure I won't get hurt. Right. Yeah, that's something I had to pick up. I had to learn that No, that's a red flag. Yeah,

Unknown 53:30
totally. So it's probably even harder to to like even if you see a red flag and then act on it and like end a relationship but you've been dealing with someone that that's that's tricky.

Unknown 53:39
Yeah. That's something I struggle with too. Like that's like something like I struggled with. I did go therapy for a little bit for it. But then she said I was not a good therapist. No, no. Just like offhandedly. She said, I'm not cystic. I was like looks like I'm paying $130 Wow, I just I slept I was like I had like, Oh my God. Yeah, have a nice day. And that's normal. I was like, I'm never going back.

Unknown 54:12
Was that because like, why would you say that? We're like, the ability to see like social cues. Or something like I'm a little bit on the spectrum.

Unknown 54:20
Yeah. No, she just like I was just offhandedly saying stuff that my dad used to say. Yeah. And she said, Are you a mistake?

Unknown 54:30
Why that's not professional.

Unknown 54:32
No, it is. No, so that's why I just left. But yeah, it's hard for me to pick up on those red flags. Yeah. Because like I said, it's the cycle. And also the thing like I said, with my mom, it was hard for her to pick up on it. Like yes, my dad was making my little sister do like all this cooking and cleaning and stuff like that at like 1415 When mom was cooking Thanksgiving dinner at 11 Yeah, it's just a cultural thing, right? Do you understand? Right? Yeah.

Unknown 55:01
Yeah, I do. Like don't mind me saying. Try to steal as my father's family when there's a party or something. Men don't even get up from their seats. Yeah. They don't even get out. Working on money. And then one thing they did, I was like, if you guys are gonna steal I'm gonna sue the wall.

Unknown 55:31
Yeah. People have certain roles. This is your role. So you go out there and make the money and cook before take care of the kids on everything. Else. But then you have to meet your expectations right? As the guy you actually have to go out there and get the money because if you don't get that money, there's not gonna be food.

Unknown 55:58
They got the money but person should also enjoy the party. Like if there is something there work is 24/7 While yours is nine to five. That's not fair. No.

Unknown 56:11
Yeah, just cultural norms. Yeah, yeah. So I'm saying it's a bit of a cultural thing.

Unknown 56:16
There's a lot that goes to it. But like, in my maternal side, they also like for example, my father, when my mom like everything, because she's a better cook. Yeah, like, you know, my mom cooks everything, but my dad does the dishes after the party, right. So like, it's kind of like what I can do or like my dad knows how to do barbecue better. So sure. That part so like it's not, it doesn't have to work if you started, what you should do and what I should do, but like, if I'm better at this, I can do this. Like, are you better at that? Yeah, like it's easier for you to do that. Like you can you can do

Unknown 56:59
so. Yeah. And my mom's mom's mom used to work to like her. Her father was a lawyer and her mother was worked at relatively, so they both had jobs, but her brothers would sit on the couch and they would do whatever and my mom would be in the kitchen with her mom. Making making dinner. And that's why and even now like today, I'll be like, I'll do my half like our chores to split 5050 And especially when she works like when she works. And I was in school, I would do all the chores but the cooking because she liked to cook. I do the dishes and take out the trash and clean up a little just to clean up a bit more. Yeah, I do my laundry and stuff like that. But even then she was like, like, it wasn't normal for her. Right?

Unknown 57:44
I think this this is still like women do more of the household stuff. Yeah, like even in our house. My mom doesn't matter at like still like that takes apart but yeah,

Unknown 58:00
I think I think the main thing and search relationships is just having like, an understanding, right? Because there's an understanding of how things work in your online personal household think you'll be fine.

Unknown 58:16
If it's like mutually respectful and like every person's Yeah. I think it's also interesting like, and I won't bore you guys with too much history, but like I'm totally history buff. And I researched like the suffragettes movements and like how that related to like, prohibition like coming from their.

Unknown 58:37
You like blood cups. Yeah, I love podcasts. Yeah. You should check out the miser podcast. Shocking. It's called shut shut history. Oh, short history off or real dictators or I think I think you like you like stuff like that. Because yeah, they talked about the suffer against the jaw.

Unknown 58:56
Oh, dude, can you can you send me that episode?

Unknown 58:59
Yeah, you've got it quite right. I do. Yeah. Show you.

Unknown 59:03
I straight up would love to see that as well. You don't have to find it right now. But I'm definitely gonna remind you. I think it's interesting like, also where we are in history a little bit given like, the concept of like, gender roles and norms and stuff. It's obviously like, especially on campus here. It's a very forward topic of like gender identity and like expectations, that sort of thing. And when I was when my current partner and I were like getting to know each other, her name's Mitch. We don't know we're both we're both like forward thinking people and we're like, alright, let's gauge like forward compatibility here a little bit and talk about like, you know, roles and expectations and I was straight up just like, I am not interested in anyone being a stay at home life. Or like stay at home mom.

Unknown 59:53
Yeah, bringing something to the table or that's a no, no,

Unknown 59:57
it will. It's like it's like, if I truly care about someone, like I want them to also experience their best life. And she's like, I also don't want to like, you know, be a stay at home mom and some, some women genuinely want that for themselves. They want to be like, feel that security and taken care of. It's not something I'm interested in, like, I want someone who's like, I'm interested in like an equal dynamic. And I feel like that's sort of maybe that's a point in time that would not have had like conversation that wouldn't have happened earlier in time. But I feel like I'm kind of digressing from the, the core of this, this interview

Unknown 1:00:39
revolves around bringing it back to the point of birth. Oh, I also mentioned that, I think something like another point that you can't like a red flag or kind of like, where things start is that mostly women, they might work the same amount, like hours or put the same effort in, but they generally bring less to the table. Yeah, like less money. But they weren't consistent. But I have seen this and specifically back home that they're like, I still also have work to do like I can take care of the grocery shopping today because I also have to go to work. And then the partner is like, Oh, you just make a pen up cancels like what I do. So let me work and you just like, stick to this like my dad was? Yeah, I think that's also like really important to value people. Like they're under journey and even though they like make $200 Or you make $1,000 they their work is still valuable and they're so like progressing and doing their life and I think we should value people's like effort would have been like the same amount of money or something. They're still like, working.

Unknown 1:01:58
And I like what you said that like they're still like on their own journey. Like there's a sense of autonomy still and like equal value, no matter how much income you're bringing in.

Unknown 1:02:08
My mom, that's something my dad would do to my mom. When she was working. She spent like the first 15 years being a stay at home mom. My dad was just never around us working from like he he did work hard to give us good light he worked from like, I think he left the door at six came home at like 7pm So you're still working constantly. Yeah, pretty much workaholic but she's Yeah, she would come home and he would say that kind of stuff where like she would she was like doing her job doing her work. He would like make those kind of comments, and it made her feel like, like part of the reason why she won't get that degrees because she didn't think like she would get a good job. Because he had made her believe that she wasn't going to Yeah, like even to this day I'll show her stuff like programming. She didn't really get it. And she like understand it. And I said like and she said like it's constantly like, they'd always like to meet her in person to my dad. There's constantly that demean like, I'm less than I can't figure this out. I'm a woman. If you do your masters

Unknown 1:03:08
or if you do PhD, you're gonna like, only make for example, yeah, handle it $1,000 More monthly. It's not worth it. Just like you know, do this stuff. Instead, I'll make more money. That's like in total. It's so much to sacrifice for the family. Historically speaking, it was mostly women who did that are like, yeah, just just do this stuff until I study just like I focus on paying this loan. That's why Yeah,

Unknown 1:03:38
yeah. You just because I have a like you have a sister, right? She's a medical doctor. So like, at some point in her career, she had to get married as well, right. So she so then we're like, obstacles about people will tell you how, if you get married now, how about your school stuff and all that. And then my parents because my family is progressive, right? So they were like, Yeah, you could still get married and keep going with school. And that's exactly what she did. Good. Support. Yeah, she got married. She had her kids. But then that brought extra pressure, right? Because I've got what six? And then there's like, I'm the youngest, right. So she's the she's the fourth. And then I've got like way older brothers so she got married before they all did right right. So they're brought in like an extra pressure on them know like, Oh, you guys your little sister is getting married. Already, what are you guys doing? Yeah, so those like extra pressure on them. So they're like, Okay, you guys have to get married. Now you have to get time for thankfully I didn't have to face that.

Unknown 1:04:51
That's pretty cool. family to support.

Unknown 1:04:55
Yeah. Guess what mom would do she thought was just normal sacrifice her life. Not because it hurt. Her family is the most important thing to her. Yeah. Likewise, my sisters and I

Unknown 1:05:10
are open in modern society right. Do you see why Oh, should women give up careers or should people give up careers and have kids or like, given thing you know with

Unknown 1:05:23
the moving like, your dad got a better job. But for example, maybe if your mom stayed in New York, or stayed in Canada, she could have like, had a better professional life. Yeah,

Unknown 1:05:37
when she moved back here. She talked to really commendable family friends got a job. Like almost immediately. They actually guess what, because they're another career path. Paralegals. They need a lot. She's getting paid quite a lot. Good for her. So she could have advanced. She could have just she could have gotten her degree she could have advanced she said that she regrets not going to law school and becoming a lawyer because she said she definitely could have done it and when she went back to school, she made like dean's list

Unknown 1:06:04
for your mom's reference, my mom's aunt. Yeah, she's 85 is going to law school and so it's never like

Unknown 1:06:16
I told her I said Mom, you could do it and she goes maybe if I was 10 years younger, and that's all she said.

Unknown 1:06:21
She's 85 Like she I don't mind 50 moving like, you know, like physical like movements and stuff, but she was like, even if I'm gonna die tomorrow I want to know this stuff.

Unknown 1:06:35
That's why I've told her I said mom, I said like, you can do it. You could you could go to law school because she's, I remember there was a case that this is kind of kind of an off topic story. There's a case at her because our floor in New York she worked for was a divorce lawyer. There was a case like I brought it in he said I think my like my spouse is taking on her like, I want full custody but I'm a man so it's a bit harder for me. And I think my like my ex spouse, along with my kids is not home. While she's supposed to have the kids because when you're you're supposed to have like a specific address you're taking the kids to when you have custody. Yeah. So I am so they are kind of researching the case. And I went and googled it does Google the address. Airbnb heard the address where she's supposed to be taking the kids on the weekend?

Unknown 1:07:24
Just a Google search.

Unknown 1:07:25
Yeah. And she said she called him to learn she said look she says right here Airbnb, their Airbnb like when you're supposed to be having the kids is not and there's no other address listed on there where the kids are supposed to be. So the moms Airbnb, the place where the kids are supposed to be. While should you're supposed to have custody, which is no no no. Right? So that took screenshots went to court should screenshots and the divorce lawyer says the first time they've ever gotten full custody for a father.

Unknown 1:07:52
Oh, my God. That's a big deal.

Unknown 1:07:56
Yeah. Just because she was air b&b. Yeah. She could prove that the kids weren't being there. Yeah. Just with that search because you could she there. Was bookings available. Yeah. screenshots. Evidence here is from this date bookings are available.

Unknown 1:08:10
Yeah. So maybe the project for next year would be like how the board is becoming sexist against men. It's a touchy

Unknown 1:08:24
no tread lightly.

Unknown 1:08:26
Yeah, we were we were getting into like sociology, which is which is totally valid and like worth talking about. But yeah, I just want to say like I was in a lineup for Costco. Back during like the, you know, food panics of the pandemic and everything. I was talking with someone in line next to me, because it was like, you know, an hour wait to get in there. And she's just finished her career. She was like, I think 56 And she was like, trying to figure out how to like, you know, do academic upgrading to get back into school because you'd want to go be a lawyer and I was like, totally talking about it. She's like yeah, it's never too late. Never too late.

Unknown 1:09:01
That's why I told my mom but she's come do you cook with me? Yeah. Holiday shoot first weekend kicked out as their dates holiday. Yes, it go off. She goes, No.

Unknown 1:09:14
I think she wants to go ahead.

Unknown 1:09:18
Oh, no, I'm just gonna ask like, but she wants to be a lawyer. Right. Or is it?

Unknown 1:09:22
Oh, no. She told me she didn't want to be a lawyer at first because she wasn't like, she didn't want to offend people. She was fair. Yeah. But yeah, I don't know. I think she's more worried. I think she doesn't want to work until she's like, 80. Yeah, she wants to retire. Spend time with her. I think she wants to retire for kids. Yeah, but um, yeah. I don't know what he's gonna say. But you don't

Unknown 1:09:48
necessarily have to become a lawyer. If you go to law school. I think you can just become a legal adviser like what what's your mom did? Yeah. Now like help them itself. In court,

Unknown 1:10:00
yeah, paralegal so she does all the paperwork and she she works downtown and she does real estate.

Unknown 1:10:08
She said was really just as a person,

Unknown 1:10:10
but the thing is that she didn't think that what she was going through that stuff, right? Yeah. She is quite capable and dependent. She's figured out quite a lot of things. But she spent so much time with my dad and spent so much time being controlled that she had think she had it in her. And that's why I think like it's important to note that to like what you said about being able to figure stuff out Yeah, it gives them a sense of independence. I can do this so that way, if they do come back, like that abusive spouse does come back and says like, I'll take care of you. I'll help you out. They can go look, I've set up a bank account for myself. I've done all this stuff. Yeah, I've done all these things. I don't need you anymore. Yeah, that's it just a bit less likely.

Unknown 1:10:47
Yeah. Just a bit. Maybe that's enough to help them get independence

Unknown 1:10:53
for you if they do come out. And even if they are if they do go back. Now they've got a little bank account set up. They've got a little support network set up so that they do decide to leave again. They've got a bit more done. And it might motivate them to leave again.

Unknown 1:11:06
Totally agree. You were gonna make another point on it.

Unknown 1:11:14
Hopefully it comes back. Yeah.

Unknown 1:11:16
Because that's like, yeah, when I was in like my relationship, that was something I struggled with leaving. Yeah, because you don't think you're right I just thought I was getting better.

Unknown 1:11:27
Like better than the partner that you had. Yeah. Yeah, it's difficult, or you just don't think you're capable? Yeah, yeah. I think one thing we talked about in the like, the second phase part is like, self esteem is like the biggest problem almost believing in yourself because like, you're going through a dynamic that is meant to grind you down and belittle you intentionally or otherwise, that's what happens.

Unknown 1:11:50
Yeah. And yeah, that's why I think like just having them do that like, like you said, you can set up here's a bunch of resources you can access by think like, here's what you should do like a step by step guide. Yeah. Yeah, I'm sure like stuff already like that exists out there. Yeah, just something to consider. I know they mentioned like how is your How does it sit? Like your interface to that

Unknown 1:12:13
against like, the grain

Unknown 1:12:14
you know, totally, like don't reinvent the wheel. I mentioned that you can always like us that kind of stuff. I think like you guys can put a twist on it to like your own like here are some shelters in Victoria, you can. Here's how to find a place to live. If you cannot find a place like here are some shelters.

Unknown 1:12:29
Yeah, totally agree. I was just gonna say like, yeah, we're we're that's kind of the next step after we've explored a little bit about what we think is really going on as far as like, what problem to solve is like, look at what solutions already exist. next big step for us for sure.

Unknown 1:12:48
I was saying that the thing without becoming a partner. I think she wants something only for Victoria. Yep. So this is like, I think all the things that are already existing out there is like most of our Canada wide or like yeah, province wide and that kind of stuff, but also like really meeting something to Victoria has made me like a small city. You know, creating an app or something. So like, this is gonna be like a bit troublesome just like they have to update like to get out of the box and like, improve it.

Unknown 1:13:25
Or it might be shared. It might be like, like, I think that was a good point, you guys made like whether it should be a webinar or something. My mom has shared an iPad with my dad. Yeah. My mom said my dad knew my mom's passcode actually, I think she didn't know. Yeah, so like there's shared. That makes sense.

Unknown 1:13:45
Totally. Weird. We're even trying to come up with ideas on like, hiding a support network inside another app. Yeah. That you know, an abusive partner would not look at like I don't know, like they were like a menstrual cycle tracking app, but really it's like a helpline or something. And it was hard for us to determine like at what point in the journey we were not going to focus and adding features for like, Secrecy is going to be so complicated and like that, that'd be its own, like, project on its own.

Unknown 1:14:20
Yeah, it's very just to get the general idea down.

Unknown 1:14:23
I think so. I agree. Focus on like that, that third part. But the the bottom line, most important question, though, is like, Where can we make the most impact if that's at a different phase, as we talk to more people and discover then, clearly, that's where we should focus and by the sounds of everything you've told us and it's looked up like it kind of comes down to this your social network and your strength of your connections. So investigating why, you know, some people have stronger connections and others or I don't know it's a whole other like, ball of wax to sort of analyze.

Unknown 1:14:59
Yeah, because it's important to that my mum hadn't spoken to some of these friends in like, 20 years. Yeah, she hadn't spoken them like since my mum and dad, like moved to New York. Yeah, I spoke to them in years, and she reached out to them, too. So I'm wondering some of these women to have the social network they just don't think it exists. anymore. Right? It's just they're usually convinced that that right like my dad convinced my mom, they don't care about us. Do you ever see this? Yeah, no, ever call us. But she did have the social network and I, I had to convince her to as a mom come up to Victoria and she was why? Because she was about where to retire and I said you don't have a job in New York. You can't like, it's not like I said, you come to Victoria, you're going to have a lot of connections. You're gonna be able to find a job. You know, a friend. She's like, well, I'm talking to my friends. So she comes out here and yeah, and every weekend her friend calls her her old cadets friend from when she was like, 25 Yeah, calls her and goes to know what you're doing with go to a party. Even her even her friend's daughter was like, Are you excited to have your best friend back? Yeah.

Unknown 1:16:04
So that's pretty cool.

Unknown 1:16:05
Yeah. So I think it's important to note too, it's, I think it's a question of too. Obviously, some of these women don't have connections. Yeah. I'm not going to deny that. But I think some of them just think they don't have connections.

Unknown 1:16:16
I 100% agree with that. Like as you're talking about this, I'm reflecting on the fact that like, oh, up in Duncan, I have a whole friend group there that I haven't talked to since the start of the pandemic because like, I moved to Victoria, I got into school. And like some part of me is like, some days I'm like, Well, why haven't they reached out to me? And then I'm like, Oh, they're probably thinking the same thing about me. Like, why am I reach out to them? And at the end of the day, like, if any one of them was in trouble, and they reached out to me, even if it was like 10 years from now, I'll totally be there for them. Yeah, and it's like you have almost this this much wider bedrock of, of a social network than maybe most people are aware of, like on any, any, any daily basis.

Unknown 1:16:58
I did. Yeah, I definitely did. But my cousin. When I first came to Victoria, I got really close to one of my cousins. Who was the same age as me, went to UVA, we had a bunch of classes together. And then as I got more into early, so I talked to him less and less. And then the relationship blew up. And I called him up and I was like, crying talking about it. And he was there for me. No, I didn't think he would and his relationship recently blew up and I started talking to him more, and he didn't think same thing. He didn't think he'd have the connection. And he felt just Yeah.

Unknown 1:17:33
I'm wondering if we should talk to a sociologist talk about like, because like social network theory is like totally like a sub topic of sociology. Like figuring out like, how that kind of works for people. I don't know, there's lots of things to explore here because

Unknown 1:17:46
I really, I really got the strength to leave my ex boyfriend after I felt like I had other people that I can rely

Unknown 1:17:52
on and trust. That's a solid statement. I think that's a big takeaway from this whole. Yeah,

Unknown 1:17:56
I think my mom did too, because she didn't actually start believing process until like, he was drunk and he was smashing shit and lock and she ran out the door and like, I'm leaving. Yeah, she locked it and he was banging and screaming. Yeah. And until she she didn't really get the like, I should leave until she called up that French and talk to them like four or five years and said like, I know your husband cheated, but man, I just didn't know what to do.

Unknown 1:18:24
There's a lot of different directions. We could go with that. That's that's something to explore for sure.

Unknown 1:18:28
Yeah, we shouldn't focus on talking to a psychologist. Yeah, because geology is like something like Alaska Public whole society what they should do. That's the point. This is also like, I think this is like, personal stuff that people don't really share it out loud. But it's also related to their socializing aspect.

Unknown 1:18:53
What if we got a sociologist and a psychologist just talk together and we just set up a whole focus group there.

Unknown 1:19:06
At least I'm glad I helped with that because I really was worried I wouldn't be

Unknown 1:19:10
like oh my god, no, for real. It's been incredibly helpful. Yeah. Thanks, Lindsay.

Unknown 1:19:17
How to Stop I've used podcasts.

Unknown 1:19:23
Well, you know, it's interesting you say that because like, that could be its own MVP. In a way it doesn't necessarily have to be an app like maybe fire today. Yeah. God. Break. What if there was a podcast that people could like just listen to into like other people's stories about survival? Like that's, that takes much less coding

Unknown 1:19:46
made me even more productive. Knowing what to do where to draw the line. Like, did you draw that line where I would draw that line? Yeah. Yeah. And I

Unknown 1:19:57
struggle I struggle with drawing that line. Yeah, I really do. Like just from my own experience,

Unknown 1:20:03
I think everyone does, but like also taking a look at how when did that person draw the line? Or like when they draw the line, I would come up with a personnel like, you know, meet windows, like, different stories and like, maybe, oh, they all have this thing. And they all ended up doing this. So maybe I could draw that. line like a bit earlier and yeah, yeah, earlier but not like also super early that we didn't really know. Yeah. Yeah, cuz like, honestly, like, I don't think anyone had the perfect childhood. No, we all suffer from like some things that our parents did. And they didn't even know that they were doing this to us. They're being like super helpful and just like, getting that like ethics in our mind.

Unknown 1:20:52
A lot of ways they're like, you know, I had an even worse as a kid, you know, like, all this stuff tends to be generational. It doesn't, doesn't excuse the behavior. But though they're like, often trying to make improvements and I'm just doing it wrong.

Unknown 1:21:04
Yeah, so my dad, I mean, his his dad was an alcoholic, he's chasing with the belt shoes, and he would go and he'd run me hide in the forest. And then his mom would have to call them and hold every night and then his he moved out to Victoria and join the cadets because his mom died at 90 and he decided he was just out with the family and his sisters still say stuff like, oh, even in the family.

Unknown 1:21:27
That exchanges a lot. That's a good amount of context, right? Like

Unknown 1:21:30
yeah, it is. Yeah, my mom went up to because his sisters are still very close to our family. Yeah. My oldest sister lives with his aunt, or with her aunt, which is his sister and my. I still talked to one of my cousins, which is from his side, and they like she told her what happened. They just said, Yep, sounds like his dad. That's always

Unknown 1:21:53
That's rough. I also wonder if like, because by the sounds of it, that sounds like he has maybe not the strongest social network himself. I don't know what to do. He seemed like he had a lot of friends and like other people, because like he you guys moved countries. Yeah.

Unknown 1:22:10
Yeah, he just didn't like that they weren't agreeing with him. Right? He talked to one friend, one friend, who also had an affair and blamed it on the partner. Yeah, all of these friends reached out to him and said even his he worked at this mill in New York. And he basically saved it like they were gonna shut down. He was put as major as it. That's the reason he went to New York and he turned around the whole mill became like, and they loved him. Not only because of that, because like, he grew he grew up from it's a very poor area. He didn't grow up with money. He wasn't awful. You TOIDY he knew what he was doing. He worked with the men. He could like, be one of them. Yeah, which a lot of a lot of managers can write. And they heard what happened. And they all reached out to him. And neither like me, they just said like, do come back to your family. Yeah, what the hell are you like, are you okay? What are you doing? Like? You just didn't respond.

Unknown 1:23:05
Oh, wow. That's that's pretty strange when you think about it.

Unknown 1:23:12
Maybe even like being able to draw that line? Early. Yeah. Sometimes it's not even just like sometimes it doesn't have to end up leaving sometimes when it's like early in like the early phases, there's real chance chances that that person can change if they are willing to go to a therapist. Yes, everyone is actually like suffering from something and sometimes like it gets to a point where they can't toss that person boards anymore. Like sometimes if you just be like, Oh, this I think this relationship like this part of the solution is getting a bit like to the abusive sides of it and like maybe if we continue doing this, it could be abusive in the future. Or it could like make the ground for an abusive relationship and then like, talk about it, and sometimes I think it doesn't have to go that far. Yeah, he like, yeah, sometimes things can actually change. Like, we always talk about like, yeah, they should leave but like, sometimes. Sometimes Yeah, even before like things gets so bad, being able to gain knowledge about like, how people's stories have been to like that kind of like, how did they happen? How

Unknown 1:24:26
I agree, and I think it's, it's tricky because it's like, I think a large part of what keeps someone in a bad dynamic like that is hope. That things are gonna get better. Yeah. So it's

Unknown 1:24:38
exactly. It's clinging on to who they used to be. It's just

Unknown 1:24:42
Yeah, but, but you're right. There's still a person there's, they're not like, let's say like a lost cause, like there's things that they can do to recover and learn better relationship skills probably go like, unpack their own trauma and counseling and that sort of thing. But holding out for that is like, I think probably what keeps a lot of people in these dynamics because they, they see the person beyond what's going on and that's probably the hardest part. And at the same time, it's like, trying to teach people those like, communication skills for relationships early on, like it's tricky when the like communication like is a team effort almost in relationships. It's like it takes one one person to be, do the courageous thing and vulnerably open up and talk about, you know, what I'm experiencing and how challenging things are for me, but it also takes the other person to be receptive to that. And to not put up defensiveness of walls and like that's, I mean, that takes vulnerability on both sides.

Unknown 1:25:49
You would know like, you know, if you have to leave or not, because, like, early on, if you're able to, like, I'm gonna struggle with Yeah, if you understand that red flags and then like, you start talking to them, and they're like, No, you're just being crazy. You know, you would know like he shouldn't like, that's why that

Unknown 1:26:08
word. Yes. Because I do have some close friends who are and I said, and I've had some of them like do shady things to me. I want them like I have tried to talk to them. They go stick up ghosting me. And I said to them, Look, I said if you don't want to talk to me, that's fine, but like, at least let me know. Don't go to me because you were a good friend. Yeah. Like, you know, he's just kind of mean to me, and it just stresses me out. And then they were like, look, I'm there like when they say this, and like, look, I'm going through like, I'm going through a lot with school. I'm like on the brink of failure. I don't want to talk to anyone right now. And then, and I said, I said look, I said here I said look I know you've struggled with mental health stuff. Why don't we get you written out in academic session? And they were like, the minute I started saying that stuff I said like look like it's okay, like I feel so Shambles like they've taught me they're really angry and I was like, there's nothing to be ashamed. I was like you struggle a lot. Why? Don't we get this? It's a valid reason to be struggling through school. I said, Why don't we get you this an appropriate academic concession if they don't accept it and you still fail appeal? I said, you still got a bunch of steps. And after that, that gave me like, two hours later, they immediately start calling and they're like help me out. Please, help me with this form.

Unknown 1:27:19
Just just kudos. A really cool friend, by the way, and like I that's incredible of you know, I also hope that like you're, you know, not taking on too much responsibility for other people. Because that's something I've struggled with in the past, like knowing the balance between helping other people with their own growth and also tending to my own. Yeah, but I think one of the biggest things that impedes that communication for relationships in the first place, is that on the flip side of all of this, I mean, there are societal expectations and stereotypes about how a man should be Yeah, and being, like living up to that sort of sense of stoicism and strength and being like the quote unquote, pillar for the relationship that impedes vulnerability, you know, and it takes vulnerability to have that kind of communication and dialogue with a partner to form a secure relationship. And I think like, that's kind of the biggest, like, shift in perspective for a lot of guys to have, like, if I could recommend anything to a guy would be like, realizing that it takes far more strength to be vulnerable. And honest about how you're feeling. Yeah. And at the end of the day, like if it's not received, well, that's not a reflection of like, how you are as a person that's like, a reflection on how they're receiving you. If you're if you're being open and honest with someone about what's going on and they don't listen, walk away. Just walk away.

Unknown 1:28:45
Oh, that's why I said because that person had been a good friend to me and I was like, I'm like, I like this. They just, they got angry. They blew up at me. And I was like, look, let's figure this out. I said, let's get you up and goes, Can I call tomorrow? Can you help me write this? And I said, Yeah. And to this day, yeah. Because we sometimes still because I think they're because they fail. But they said on the call they said yeah, I felt ashamed. I felt like if I talk to you, I would have to give you as bad news. Yeah. It's like, yeah, that's the thing. It's like the communication to

Unknown 1:29:17
about like your hand story. Maybe that wouldn't be the case because people aren't differently. But maybe like in New York, when like things were getting started, not like really happening if they were like communicating and going through a therapist, your your dad might have been open to change at that point. But maybe not. Maybe you did try. Yeah, if she did try, maybe that would be like the call that we would get like that's the that's where I draw the

Unknown 1:29:49
line. And that's where she didn't Yeah, because she knew what was going on because of alcoholism. She knew that it was an issue. She I heard her but hear her like yell at him and be like, What are you What is going on? While you talk to me? We'll work this out with someone. You don't have to talk with me. And you just refuse. There's nothing wrong with me. So you just there's nothing wrong. I'm fine. I'm great. I'm good. Because they're also with mental health stigma his family. Yeah, absolutely.

Unknown 1:30:14
That's why I like listening to other people's stories like I think it really helps. Yeah, so sometimes the case is like, not that but also like, trying to realize what I should do, like definitely, is this actually abusive? Or is there actually no way back? Training and getting to know that I think that's the hardest

Unknown 1:30:34
one you mentioned like having a role model for Oregon template for what isn't isn't acceptable. And like, we mentioned briefly, like maybe a podcast would be a better MVP or, or even like solution product. Maybe a lot of these people don't have access to phones or tablets or you have to open up an app or something. What about a radio station? Or just something people can listen to? Because maybe even just hearing stories from people that have survived would be enough inspiration.

Unknown 1:31:06
I don't know. I do disagree with them. A lot of not having phones. I think it's a really common misconception, because I have I grew up in a very poor area of New York, where it wasn't a city at all is very rural, very poor. Talking like friends getting evicted from their houses multiple times and moving around a bunch. They all have homes. Right it's essential for

Unknown 1:31:30
them. Do they have secure like privacy with those phones, though? That's the

Unknown 1:31:34
Yeah, that is one thing to consider too. It's the privacy. Yeah. I'm not sure 100% Like, like I said, a lot of them just consider this normal. If I asked them they'd be like, Why are you asking me? Yeah,

Unknown 1:31:48
I think the bad thing about today's kind of like social media and everything for example, if you go to a podcast and just like open up this podcast, even if you like the search history and everything. It's gonna be your phone is hearing you like if someone is working with the same tablet after that they might get an ad in YouTube like if you're facing ever user behavior call, blah blah number or something like that. You know that? Because your phone is always hearing you and they can like learn about AI and they want to like, give you something more useful and more knows and I think like they don't want more of those stuff. Like there should be something like if this person is searching something like googling this, yeah, don't get like don't give them an ad and Instagram like above this thing. Please

Unknown 1:32:36
see those ads too as they say if you're facing an abusive situation like I said before, most people don't know. Yeah, they

Unknown 1:32:45
just don't know. Yeah. So it's like, why would someone even tune in

Unknown 1:32:49
framing things? You know, I mean, yeah, like figuring out which position I don't think it's a good position to like, tell these women this is the views. Yeah. Because it's gonna be hard. Very hard. And like I said, it's a lot of because if one person doesn't say like five people tell you where to social support network comes in,

Unknown 1:33:07
right? Yeah, it's tough. I think like, the further back you go along in the journey, the more complex it gets. Yeah. Because like you know, helping people find out what their next steps are and where to go. Yeah. That's actionable. Yeah, sure. I can. I can imagine how we might approach that. Going further and further back, though. It's like, getting them out of the circumstances versus prevention. Like that's, that's pretty complicated.

Unknown 1:33:34
Yeah. Ladies, and you can't help you.

Unknown 1:33:40
How are we doing for time today? Do you got other things you got to take care of?

Unknown 1:33:44
Oh, yeah, I might head back. Just because I wanted like week off. Yeah, for sure. For sure. Work like just planning out everything is planned out like another another interviews?

Unknown 1:33:57
Yeah, I can't thank you enough for your time. Appreciate.

Unknown 1:34:01
I really am. For really well I could do really helpful.

Unknown 1:34:07
Really like good amount of light. On the reality of things. People like a mechanic. Nothing and no money like they can go back to what they had before this relationship.

Unknown 1:34:20
Yeah, yeah. They just don't know they can. They think they can?

Unknown 1:34:24
Right? Absolutely. Okay, I'm gonna end the recording

Unknown 1:34:27
there. Oh,

Transcribed by https://otter.ai